[WHOOSHING]
[GENTLE MUSIC]
[DIDGERIDOO MUSIC]
[PIANO MUSIC]
>> It's the most profound
question each of us will
consider.
Why do we exist, and
what should we accomplish
on this earthly plane?
>> One of the big challenges
the world faces, in my opinion,
today is, how can we change
our frequency from a negative,
sort of pessimistic
and fear-based place,
to quickly shift it to a
higher frequency of love
and happiness?
>> Many ancient traditions
believe that spiritual
evolution is the purpose of
human incarnation and that
certain sounds and frequencies
can help activate our brain
and higher selves.
[CHANTING, CLAPPING]
In this way, we can perceive
more of the entire spectrum
of the universe.
>> Spirit and matter are
like two ends of the spectrum
of frequency.
You have spirit at those
highest frequency levels.
And then matter at the densest
frequency levels, in between,
it's all a spectrum of
what we could call energy.
We could call it
vibration, where
spirit is vibrating at the
fastest frequency levels
and matter is vibrating at
the slowest frequency levels,
but it's all one spectrum.
>> We live in a world that
is constantly oscillating
on and off.
It's constantly pulsating.
It's constantly in
a wave issuance.
We interpret this continual flow
of current through our senses,
but all of those
senses are pulsing
and they're interacting
with the wave.
We are creating our worlds
in a response to pulsation.
>> If you go back almost 4,000
years to the oldest Sanskrit
texts in India, the Veda.
They discuss this
in great detail.
Everything is created
out of sound or om,
the original sound
of all sounds.
So what you see at the
core of the quantum field
in the state of vibration
forming is standing waves.
What's vibrating?
According to them, consciousness
itself is what's vibrating.
And what is
consciousness vibrating?
It's vibrating an idea.
What's the idea?
This is the idea.
[PIANO MUSIC]
>> What we feed into this ocean
of frequencies can determine
our direction in life.
It's important to be conscious
of our thoughts, emotions,
and intentions.
>> Any time I start to feel
fearful or I start feeling
overcome by conditions that I've
perceived around me as being
scarce, I start, instead, to
think about all the things that
I'm grateful for, my
family, my children,
the wonderful places I've
been able to visit throughout
my life.
And even when I've been in
moments of absolute despair,
that has never failed me.
It has always lifted and
changed my own perspective
to the point where I felt
like all of a sudden,
I could take on those
challenges once again
and do it in happiness
and abundance.
>> Tuning into higher
frequencies or more positive
planes can be similar to
switching radio stations,
but sometimes we
can't hear the music.
[RADIO HISSING]
>> These vibrations, they span
a spectrum that is way bigger
than what is within
the audible spectrum.
>> What is that
frequency spectrum?
It's energy.
It's vibrational essence.
It's the essentials that
everything in the universe
is made of, an alchemy
we would talk about,
the body, soul, spirit, or
the sulfur, the mercury,
and the salt, which are
the three essentials
that everything is made of.
Or from shamanic
perspective, you
have the four
elements, Earth, water,
fire as philosophical principles
that infuse themselves
in everything that's manifested.
[GENTLE MUSIC]
>> Thoughts and words can also
influence what we manifest.
>> The thoughts that we think,
and even the concepts that we
are capable of conceiving, are
all driven by the language that
we use consciously
or unconsciously,
verbally or silently
every moment of every day.
>> We hear sound behind us, in
front of us, and all over us.
So within this
vibrational universe,
it's possible that
whatever I say
will have resonances above
and below for trillions
and trillions of light years.
>> Scientists tell us that the
average person has about 60,000
to 80,000 thoughts per day.
Each of those thoughts
is pulsing information
through neural connections.
>> External sounds and
vibrations can also impact
or awaken our spirit.
>> Tibetan bowls,
drumming, chanting, mantra.
>> [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
>> Sound has been the ultimate
tool that humans have been
using in every culture on Earth
since the beginning to help
that process to be faster,
and deeper, and more profound.
>> If you examine the different
prayers on our planet,
you find they are vocalized,
for the most part.
They're whispered--
[NON-ENGLISH CHANTING]
>> --chanted, sung.
[NON-ENGLISH SINGING]
That is because sound
amplifies the consciousness
that we have when we're
in meditation and prayers.
[GENTLE MUSIC]
[ELECTRONIC MUSIC]
>> It's a reciprocal system.
Intentional sound can amplify
our thoughts and prayers,
and our prayers and meditations
can expand our senses.
>> It is said that when the
throat chakra, Vishudda, opens,
it allows one to hear
frequencies above and below
the human hearing range.
I call this the third ear.
This may also be
connected to allowing
us to perceive the sound current
or the sound of creation.
[ELECTRONIC MUSIC, LOW PITCHED
HUMMING]
>> The sound current is
considered to be a stream
of energy that has existed
since the beginning of creation.
>> The sound current is a
mysterious sound of a higher
cosmic order.
It has heard beyond the
ears, inside the head,
with an uninterrupted
continuity.
It is a crystal-like
vibrational frequency
that comes from
everywhere and nowhere.
Some say it is like
the sound of the ocean
with many altered tones or
harmonics superimposed on it.
>> The ancients, they
called it chabda.
It's the ancient
currents of sound.
The whole universe
is vibrational,
and it's a vibrational ocean,
and it's filled with currents.
Different cultures call these
currents by different names.
>> There are said to be actually
a number of different sounds
that relate to different
planes of consciousness.
And these planes of
consciousness, one
can listen to them,
travel on them,
and experience divine
aspects of truth.
[CHORAL MUSIC]
>> Those who can hear or
perceive the sound current may
likely have experienced
a life-changing event.
>> In 1992, I had a
near-death experience,
and the didgeridoo came into
my life right after this.
[DIDGERIDOO MUSIC]
The sound of the didgeridoo was
like a key that connected me
back to this place that I went.
Also, the sound current
that I hear since 2013
is very much like
this same sound.
To me, the sound current sounds
like the crystal didgeridoo
that I play, but
maybe like 20 octaves
higher, above the supposed
human hearing threshold.
[DIDGERIDOO MUSIC]
Tinnitus is defined as a
ringing in the ear that's not
coming from an external source.
It's said that 450
million people worldwide
have this condition,
many of whom
seek medical
attention to treat it.
>> Modern medicine often
pathologize signs of spiritual
awakening and may call hearing
external sounds that have no
apparent cause tinnitus.
[FLUTE MUSIC]
But I feel it is
much deeper than that
and certainly, it doesn't
need to be a problem.
In many cases, I feel that
it may be the sound current
that people are hearing.
Learning how to
use this experience
for spiritual evolution
would be helpful for millions
of people who are
unsure of what it means
or how to work with it.
>> Is it possible that more
people perceiving the sound
current could help with the
world's spiritual evolution?
Even those who cannot feel or
sense the sound current can
still enhance the connection
to spirit through sacred sound.
>> We individually
are tuners, in a way.
We're like tuning forks.
It means that we all have
the capacity of influencing
or affecting everyone
and everything
that we come into contact
with at every moment.
[GENTLE MUSIC]
[DRAMATIC MUSIC]
>> Many ancient cultures seem
to have a profound understanding
of the power of
sound and vibration.
>> Around the
world, for example,
in petroglyphs in Arizona,
you will see a figure,
a shaman standing
before concentric rings.
When I see concentric
rings, I'm always
thinking, sound or vibration.
So what if the message
here is that sound
is being used to open
a portal or a vortex
into which that
shaman could perhaps
step through that stone?
[DRAMATIC MUSIC]
Charles Muses, a genius
mathematician and Egyptologist,
said that from his research, the
essence of the Egyptian methods
was to use musical frequencies
to expand consciousness,
using the brain as a kind of
molecular transducer, which can
release certain neuropeptides.
Resonating certain centers of
the brain in a coherent way,
potentially using sound with
certain sacred plant medicines,
was thought to trigger
a metamorphic process
in the human, not
unlike the process
a caterpillar undergoes to
transform into a butterfly.
>> The Choctaw and others,
they describe the appearance
of a pale being.
Some people believe it was
a manifestation of Christ.
They tell in these stories
how they would chant,
and then the pale
one would appear.
What if they could also
reverse this process?
What if they could
raise themselves
to such a high level of
frequency or vibration
that they appeared to disappear
from our visible spectrum?
They're still,
perhaps, around us,
but we simply can't see
them because they're
vibrating at a much
higher frequency
than we're accustomed
to perceiving.
[NON-ENGLISH CHORAL MUSIC]
Music throughout the ages has
been used to inspire, comfort,
and unite the masses.
[PERCUSSIVE MUSIC]
>> Sound can help to accelerate
our spiritual evolution,
I think, primarily by being
a tool that we can use
for achieving greater
coherence in our lives.
And when we can come to a
greater state of coherence,
a greater state of
harmony within ourselves,
within our environment, that
creates that resonant effect
that we need to uplevel,
to make that ability
to connect into
the quantum field,
to really make the shift
in consciousness that we're
looking to have as a
collective race of humans.
>> Additional mystical tools may
be available for our guidance,
if we're paying attention.
>> There are so many ways
of perceiving synchronicity.
I think the most
exciting way to interact
with it is to recognize that
it's an expression of something
universal.
We experience it personally
when some outrageous coincidence
happens.
And we say, you could never
expect that in a million years.
What are the odds
of that happening?
So that's a personal
experience of synchronicity,
and it has to do with resonance.
It has to do with
attracting something
into your field at
the perfect time
to wake you up to
the acknowledgment
that you are creating your
own reality, moment by moment.
>> If I choose this
way to follow my heart,
it's the universe's job to
step in and open the doors,
turn the light screen, make
everything serve to further.
It becomes this flow.
It becomes this synchronized,
serendipitous adventure
that you never know
what's going to happen.
Pretty soon, you're in a
position where opportunities
are being dished to you that
no amount of phone calls,
or letter writing, or trying
to impose yourself could ever
get you that audience.
You could never arrive there.
It has to come to you.
[GENTLE MUSIC]
[NON-ENGLISH SINGING]
>> The word music relates to
the Muses from Greek mythology
and often refers to a higher
level of spirit which helps
inspire poets and other artists.
>> We like to say, as musicians,
we learned how to get inside
the sound.
In other words, we become
coherently resonant
with the sound.
The sound shifts
our consciousness,
and then we now have the
ability to travel on that sound.
And on that sound, we can meet
beings that are spiritual.
We can meet angels.
We can meet Dakinis, we
can beat light beings,
we can beat spirit guides.
All these intuitive
concepts become very real.
[NON-ENGLISH SINGING]
It's just that people
have described them
in different cultures
and different ways.
[PERCUSSIVE MUSIC]
>> Could it be that the spirit
guides and our higher selves
simply exist on a different
level within the spectrum
of frequency?
>> The spectrum of frequency
is something that extends all
the way from the spirit, the
highest levels of pure spirit
energy--
we could say consciousness--
all the way down to the
densest levels of physicality.
>> In the way it's thought
of in the seven-fold system,
every human being
has a physical body,
a body of vital life force, an
emotional body, mental body,
the causal body,
spiritual and divine.
When you look at
emotional impacts of music
and vibrations, you're
focusing specifically
on one plane level.
But we could actually examine
the impacts of vibrations,
really on any plane by
focusing our attention
on that specific plane.
[GENTLE MUSIC]
>> For example, one can focus on
the seven centers in the chakra
system which are often
associated with the seven notes
of the musical scale.
[GENTLE MUSIC]
>> The root chakra is associated
with your feeling of safety
and groundedness.
That might be in your own
body, in your environment,
in your relationships.
It's all about that primal sense
of, how can I be safe in life?
The sacral chakra is your
seat for creation and passion.
It's that, what am I here to do?
How do I want to
create, and what
lights me on fire to draw me
to those experiences in life?
Your solar plexus
chakra has everything
to do with your personal
power and your confidence
in yourself.
It's the ability to take
action in the world.
>> The heart chakra is the
bridge between the upper
and lower chakras, and it is
where matter meets spirit.
>> When you move to
your throat chakra,
this is your chakra that has
everything to do with what do
you speak into existence,
how do you use your words?
Your third eye is really
connecting your inner vision,
the part of you that knows
your sense of your intuition
and instinct.
>> The crown chakra is known
as the bridge to the cosmos.
It lifts and inspires you,
connecting you to the divine.
>> Knowing how to connect the
right vibrations to the correct
energy centers is one of the
highest arts of initiatory
process.
>> By using sound to tune
each of these chakras,
it's getting you open to be the
full expression of your truest
self.
>> It brings with it a
change of consciousness,
a change in the energy
field, and also a change
of a person's perception
to non-physical realities
and the activities and
beings present in them.
[GENTLE MUSIC]
>> The ancient masters
understood the ways in which
the internal and external
planes interacted.
>> In the ancient traditions,
they were multidimensional
beings.
They understood that there were
multiple planes of existence
and that they had reflected
in their own subtle bodies
all of the outer planes in
their own internal structure.
That they were the
microcosm of the macrocosm.
As above, so below.
>> With this understanding,
they could transform themselves
and their reality.
[HARP MUSIC]
>> They would create a certain
energetic emanation from
the higher consciousness state,
which would then reflect down
into the thoughts in the
mind, which would then reflect
into the emotional body state,
the vibrational body state,
physical body state,
and on every plane.
Anything that gets
created on any level
becomes emanated outward
as an energetic field.
[GENTLE MUSIC]
>> Can any of us attain these
expanded states of energy if we
learn how to elevate
our consciousness?
>> Finding the sound of the
right quality can target
a particular subtle body, and
it can become a vibrational
carrier wave.
Higher information,
higher energy, and even
particular non-physical beings
can travel on that current.
>> By being open to the
universe and its sonic tools,
each of us can tune ourselves
to a higher state of being.
[TUNING FORKS RING]
>> What we need is something
that's simple, that every day,
twice a day, for one minute,
we can tune ourselves and know,
from a broader perspective,
we're getting a neutral result.
[TUNING FORKS RING]
The safest sound is the one that
will get you the most coherent.
And C and G is the
interval of a fifth,
or a ratio of two to
three as an archetype.
That archetype is fundamental
to a vibrational universe.
We would say in
mysticism, that is
the alchemic key to everything.
[GENTLE MUSIC]
>> Tuning forks are
a helpful resource,
but even without them, we
can reach a state of harmony
by simply using our voice.
[BABY BABBLES]
Babies hum.
The elderly hum.
>> [HUMMING]
>> Everybody hums mostly
when they are happy,
mostly unconsciously.
With the hum, get--
[HUMMING] --reduced heart
rate, reduced respiration.
Your blood pressure gets lowered
to pharmaceutical levels.
You get the release of melatonin
and nitric oxide, which
means that the blood flows more
evenly throughout your body
and is also an anti-viral agent.
You get the release
of endorphins,
those wonderful
self-created painkillers.
So all of these things
happen when we hum.
[GENTLE MUSIC]
Spiritual evolution can be aided
individually and collectively
by using the power of sound.
[PERCUSSIVE MUSIC]
>> You could create an
entrainment field by playing
the right type of music that
entrains everyone into that
frequency or by doing the right
kind of chant with a sacred
word that entrains people into
that rhythm and that frequency.
It creates not only an
entrainment of the people,
but a resonant
effect which then,
when you add the intention,
you add the coherent field,
now we can really start
to impact the collective
of humanity in a bigger way.
>> We can choose to take charge
of our tuner and begin to align
with the highest
possible frequencies.
In this way, we directly
influence the collective,
and that is what is
needed right now.
So from the very beginning, when
we're told, "In the beginning
was the word," we are told
the key to our success
individually and
also collectively.
In the beginning is
the power of the word,
and the word is a frequency
or it's our vibration.
And each of us have a choice
in the frequency and vibration
that is coming from within us.
[GENTLE MUSIC]
[RINGING]
>> Each of us can make
a positive difference--
>> [HUMMING]
>> --whether it's through
humming, chanting,
or tuning into
the sound current.
[TUNING FORKS RING]
>> The sound current is
sometimes described as a sacred
rope thrown down by the divine
to the seeker who can then pull
themselves up out of
their lower nature,
their ordinary way of
being and thinking.
This allows them to embody
more of their higher
consciousness, which purifies
the seeker over time.
>> Together, we can raise
our vibration and enhance
our relation to the
larger universe.
>> I fundamentally believe
that the universe is more
a "u--inverse" than
simply a "uni-verse."
By using these
principles, I believe
we can also not
only take advantage
of new musical approaches
that will improve our biology
and bring us into synchrony
and beautiful symbiosis
with our music, but
also help us ascend
to our next level of
evolution as a species.
[WHOOSHING]
>> It is our ability to
communicate and feed the field
that connects all things through
following the fundamental
principles of our most ancient
and cherished spiritual
traditions that are based
in the heart in gratitude,
appreciation,
cooperation, and care.
[INSECTS CHIRPING]
As we feed those to
ourselves, by virtue of that,
we are feeding the planet.
[INSECTS CHIRPING]
And as we become the best
versions of ourselves,
we're creating the
best world possible.
[GENTLE MUSIC]